What is waste management?

As the human population increases, the amount of waste an d pollution produced is also proportionally increasing, and this pollution is leading to the death and endangerment of many wildlife organisms in the ecosystems affected by the pollution or where our waste is disposed.

Furthermore, consumerism today is the worst it has ever been, through the convincing of lucrative marketing my Multi National Companies, humans are buying more non-essential things than they ever have, and they do not realist that most of the products that they buy was manufactured using non-renewable materials and energy, which when burnt, like in the case of coal, oil, product a large amount of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, increasing the amount of heat trapped in the earth and contributing to global warming.

The need for waste management derives from the much needed solution to the worlds waste and pollution crisis, the most prevalent of which, are:

Water pollution:
In many parts of the world, the sewage of humans leads right into the courses of water bodies like rivers, and just recently the Bellandur lake in Bangalore, Karnataka, India was completely filled with a foam, and through testing it was uncovered that it was due to the soap utilised in households that was disposed straight into the lake from their drainage systems.

Land pollution:
Almost 50% of all waste produced (in India) goes into landfill, which are large holes in the ground into which all types of rubbish is dumped. The damaging factor is that many types of waste like e-waste, chemical waste should not be put into landfills, because they can contaminate the soil and can seep into nearby water bodies, making them poisonous to humans/animal habitats nearby. These types of waste have to be recycled, but unfortunately only a small percentage of all waste (in India) is recycled, where most of it is put into landfill or not treated at all. Moreover, when the waste decomposes in these landfills they release a large amount of methane, which is the most prolific of the greenhouse gasses (traps the most heat).

Air pollution:
The combustion/burning of fossil fuels releases a large amount of carbon dioxide, in fact, almost 75% of all carbon dioxide emissions (in the US) where from the combustion of fossil fuels. This in turn adds to the greenhouse effect, increasing global temperature significantly, and finally leading to the horrendous consequences of Climate Change discussed in the first section of this application.

In order to resolve this issue, one of the best solutions is to conduct waste management, which makes sure that all waste produced by humans (electronic, green, chemical etc.) is all either recycled/refurbished for reuse as energy or products, or disposed in a way that does not cause any of the pollutions mentioned above.