What is Climate Change and is it happening?
There have been several changes in the climate ever since the beginning of time and it is a given, that these changes will continue into the future. However since 1950, scientists have observed a steep increase in temperature globally, this phenomenon has been called global warming. A recent showcase of these changes was European heat wave of 2019, which exceeded previous temperature records 3-4, with countries like Greece, Germany and the Netherlands reaching well over 40°C, which raised questions around the world in the minds of scientists and citizens about the remaining implications of Climate Change, and what we might see in the coming years?

What are the evidences of global warming?
Thermometer readings:
Temperature readings, as seen in the graph above, have seen a steep increase over the past 50 years, and through several verified studies, scientists have been able to measure a combined land surface and ocean increase of 0.87°C since the beginning of the 20th century. 

Early spring:
In the recent decades there has been a clear sign of a shift in seasonal cycles, spring every year is arriving much earlier than sought, and the winters are far less severe than in the past. These sudden changes in the season, largely affect wildlife nesting and migration patterns, endangering several species.

Sea level rise:
Data has clearly shown that from 1901 to 2010, the average sea level has risen by 0.20m.

Retreat in Glaciers:
Over the past century, there has been ample photographic evidence that has accurately depicted glaciers around the world, melting, which has caused them to retreat. The implications today has become more severe, as some glaciers like Iceland's 'Okjökull' glacier have completely disappeared, and as a result, there is melting sea ice in Arctic, and other places.

Ice cores:
Ice cores are samples of ice, extracted by drilling through an ice sheet or glacier. Scientists for several years utilised these ice cores to detect present of past changes in temperature, because when snow falls, it traps air into the ice. And then these scientists take a sample of this ice, it uncovers accurate atmospheric gas concentrations at the exact time the snow fall occurred. This in turn is utilised to calculate the exact temperature at the time, and research shows that this simple method of ice testing, has revealed the exact temperature for each year for the past 400,000 years. And as seen in the graph above, there scientists have been able to verify a steep increase in temperature in the past decades